Spring Data is a wrapper for JPA.
You actually need to know JPA before you can start using Spring Data JPA.
It essentially replaces our repository tier unless
you need some custom functionality.
It's extremely powerful and eliminates a lot of our boilerplate code.
That's one of the things you'll start seeing more and more common as
we build more of these repository tier objects,
and it's the same if you're using Hibernate.
This isn't a problem that's unique to JPA. If you're using
standalone Hibernate or any of these frameworks,
the same copy and paste code smell, as it were,
exists across all these repository tiers or DAO objects.
It's the same pattern.
Spring Data will help clean up a lot of this,
and it can be extended for additional complex functionality.
Sometimes when people look at it, they go well that's great for simple cases,
but it doesn't do anything for complex functionality. No, it can be extended very easily, and it actually isn't very complex to do so.